---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-24T00:02:34.442Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-24T00:02:22.597Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-24-d850af52-230e-438f-8a0d-0836571c7b6c.md
published: true
url: d850af52-230e-438f-8a0d-0836571c7b6c/index.html
_type: Article

---
​The year was 2012, it was my first year in Y&G, I had just met my forum group, and right away, we were supposed to make a speech to garner votes from our peers in order to gain the program area that we desired. My heart pounded, knees grew weak, and I felt like throwing up. I had never been exposed to people not from the surrounding area of LA where I grew up in. My panic and fear quickly turned to anger and frustration when I overheard a couple NCDM delegates (their jackets/sweaters said that name) talking about giving each other their vote to get their desired program area. It angered me that they would rig the process so as to give themselves the win as if they were entitled to it. This anger and passion sprung out of me like a roaring fire that encompassed my mind like a swamping flood overpowering every other thought process including my fear. Forum court was my goal and I was going to do everything possible to get that program area. Everyone who wanted forum court stood up and was numbered off, me being last, the first person said a couple words then sat down. So on and so forth until I rose to speak, without a plan or outline to gain the votes of the rest of the forum group. I just started talking from my heart, how it is unfair to win from the loyalty of your friends, and how the rest of the group can't let this happen because the removal of power from the people to a select few is undemocratic and therefore un-American. I finished my speech with "I hope you make the right decision, the democratic decision." I ended up winning the vote ¾ of the group against the united ¼ of the group. The group cheered and that became my earliest and one of many my fondest memories of Youth and Government. I had beaten the odds and broken a major part of my shell, as cliché as that sounds. The story does not end there however, sophomore year I met Mark Godges. He would, as the year progressed, become a loyal friend who I could depend on and vice a versa. He spoke his mind in NIC and was not afraid to do it, he also ran for Youth Governor against all odds and coming from a small delegation with virtually no backing. He chose to run unaffiliated because he believed that what he fights for and what he believes in shouldn't be divided by a simple pie chart. He said he believes in everything he believes in 100% not 33% or 25% as would dictate a pie chart. His campaign's subsequent failure hurt me as much as it hurt him and it inspired me to run for something the following year (senior year). I ran for Adversary General and failed, plain and simple. I failed, I felt like a complete utter failure at the time when I heard the results. I was saddened by my defeat but what picked me up was the many delegates that shook my hand and told me that I had done well and they had voted for me. It opened my eyes to the supporters I had in the NIC and the way they viewed me, not as a failure but as someone trying to make a difference. Fast forward to Sacramento after the delegation dinner I came to the convention center to check if my proposal had made it to round three with two close friends. I had found out during the delegation dinner that I had won a silver medal in the Interview portion of the Academic Decathlon via text. I entered the convention, climbed the steps to the NIC office and looked at the posters, knees weak, arms feeling like lead, dread hanging in my heart, and apprehension in my thoughts. As soon as I saw that my proposal had passed to the third round, I jumped and shouted in excitement and disbelief. My proposal, which had previously been rejected during round two the previous year, had made it to round three, one round away from General Assembly. These two accomplishments that had so much time and effort put into them had yielded the rewards. During the third round I saw a similar proposal that mentioned that fixing the expiration date wouldn't yield a significant impact to address the problem of food waste. I took it upon myself to question the speaker's statistics and refute his incorrect assertion that he believed fixing the expiration date system would not yield much of an impact to solve the issue while there are plenty of studies that state otherwise. I left his credibility in tatters, and when it was my turn to present my proposal; I emphasized the feasibility of my proposal, well researched arguments in favor of it, and never backed down from the flurry of questions flung my way. I thought I did a very good job and received pleasant feedback on my way to lunch. When it was time to announce the surviving proposals that would go through General Assembly I listened with utmost attention only to be dealt a blow that left me in a state of disbelief. My proposal had not passed to General Assembly but the proposal that I had discredited had passed, without proper cited research and barely feasible if at all. I left the room in a hurry and stone faced, I had messed up I was sure of it, I felt again like a complete failure, and it hurt like a knife stabbing my heart. I left to go eat though I didn't have much of an appetite, trying to distance myself from everyone because I felt ashamed, I don't know why, I felt like I had blown a chance to make an impact and gain recognition for my delegation. I went to a Mexican restaurant on "K" street (I know stereotypical Mexican teen finds comfort in tacos, hilarious, at the time I didn't really think about it) and ordered two tacos and an orchata using Spanish, the lady was very friendly when I spoke and she smiled at me. It probably would've been overlooked but at the time, I felt like a failure and a simple smile cheered me up a little. I ate the tacos (they were excellent of course) and while I was eating, a Latino man, eyes tired, and shoulders slumped, sat in front of me in the next table. After a few minutes of awkward glances at me, he asked if I was on a school trip and I proceeded to explain to him Y&G. He said that I looked really professional and confident at such a young age and in my mind I thought about my failures and how this man knows nothing of them. I proceed to throw away my trash and make my way to the man to shake his hand, say my name, and thank him for talking to me. He told me to keep doing what I do because our typically disadvantaged people in this country have it tougher than most and are looked down upon. That we as minorities must never give up in the face of failure or be discouraged from our path by defeat, we must push through and work at it because the reward is worth it. The reward is worth the effort, the humiliation, the failure, and the time. His words made such a large impact on me, more than he will ever know, he brought me out of this dark place in which I had little self worth, in which I devalued my accomplishments simply because I couldn't reach my goal (no pun intended, I'm short). I left the place feeling better about myself than when I had arrived and headed to my room to rest a while before my next session. I shared this failure with my brother in everything but blood, Mark Godges, and he immediately wanted to talk to me about it. He wanted to be there for me because I guess he suspected my true feelings about not making it to General Assembly. He was the one that got me out of that dark place completely, his willingness to be there for a friend in need showed me that I do indeed have a value, that my accomplishments mean something, that I mean something to someone. His presence brought me out of that place and allowed me to muster the courage to speak in front of General Assembly. Since the first day that I spoke in Youth and Government, I have struggled with severe self-doubt, making public speaking difficult. Every time I rose to speak it felt like the first time, my voice shakes and there is tightness in my chest that makes it difficult to speak. Every single time I spoke, I had fear in my heart; a crippling fear that I didn't want anyone to know about because I felt weak and humiliated to admit that public speaking still scares me. Maybe after reading my entire story you, the reader, will be able to encourage someone else that struggles with this and understand that his or her fear is very real and it is normal for him or her to feel it. Thank you for reading my story I hope it makes a difference.